when you're out at sea you generally
know that
danger may come from sharks maybe manta
rays
but mostly boxed jellyfish which are
much more abundant
and let's admit it almost never crosses
your mind that a pretty shell you found
on the seafloor while diving
might cause you harm meet the cone snail
it's a small sea creature with a
beautiful conic shell that attracts a
lot of attention from recreational
divers
but if you see it never ever touch it
hey
this is not nautical escargot the snail
is not aggressive by itself
and you have nothing to be afraid of if
you just approach and take a closer look
at it
yet if you decide to pick it up it will
defend itself with its sharp sting
and after that well let's just say your
remaining lifetime is ticking away
cone snails are some of the most
venomous sea creatures in the world
and if you get stung by one you should
immediately seek medical help
otherwise you might have mere hours to
live
what could you do read a book there's an
antidote to the cone snails venom
but it must be administered as soon as
possible
also there are more than 500 species of
these snails
which makes it hard to find out which
one stung you
finally the venom causes paralysis so
the sooner you get help
the more chances you have to survive so
the rule here is
look but don't touch got it good
but even when you're not at sea snails
can't get you
i mean the freshwater variety these
don't have fancy shells and are hardly
dangerous all by themselves
at least if you don't eat them but the
water they live in becomes all
the more contaminated the more snails
invade it
about 10 to 20 000 people succumb to
fresh water snails like that
every year wherever you travel make sure
the water you drink is properly purified
and always boil it extra just in case
other most dangerous creatures on earth
are as unlikely as snails
poison dart frogs for example have
enough venom under their skin to take
care of eight adult humans
the most toxic one is the golden variety
and
it looks just like it sounds a pretty
thumb-sized critter
with big adorable eyes and seemingly
covered in gold leaf
but its vibrant color is a signal to
predators that they shouldn't attack
one bite into this cutie and nothing
will save you
there's no cure for the frog's venom so
even touching it
is a huge risk another danger of the sea
is the puffer fish although it won't
exactly jump at you either
all of its toxic stuff is inside the
fish and its defense mechanism
is to puff increasing in size and
letting out the needles on its skin
you'll probably not get pricked but
eating such a fish is a highly risky
enterprise
in japan the fugu species of puffer fish
is a delicacy
but only the most skilled chefs have the
right to cook it
one wrong cut and the meat becomes
poisoned while the one who eats it won't
even know
until it's too late as for critters that
can get you while still alive
the titsy fly is among the most feared
dwelling in africa
this unassuming bug is the carrier of
the sleeping sickness
that takes over ten thousand lives every
year perhaps the worst of it is you'll
probably not even see it coming
if you're not constantly vigilant tt
flies look just like regular flies
with the only difference being their
yellowish brown color
they land on people bite them and fly
off leaving the one they've bitten to
their fate
spoiler not the most pleasant one
bees are much more common though which
is perhaps the reason why they're so
fearsome
the script before the attack is usually
the same
you hear the ominous buzzing of a bee
nearby
swat at it to make it fly away it gets
agitated
lands on you and leaves its stinger
under your skin
now inside the stinger there's a
substance that can cause a severe
allergic reaction
in most cases a single bee is not a
threat to your life
but the problem is where there's one bee
there are others too
there's a simple solution though stay
calm and still
and let the bees buzz off on their own
if they don't sense danger in you
they won't attack now if you happen to
be in south america
you should know to avoid kissing bugs
not that you'd want to do that in
any other part of the world of course
okay i mean the kissing bugs
it's a species of assassin bugs now
that's much more sinister
kissing bugs get their name for a nasty
habit of biting you around the mouth
while you're sleeping and while they're
at it they can also infect you with a
disease they carry
good thing that it can manifest many
years later
bad thing it's basically incurable and
almost undetectable
so you won't even know you have it until
it shows
we're still not out of the insect
kingdom another scary creepy crawly is
the innocent
fire ant and not so innocent with the
number of people they bite
if you so much as step into their
territory fire ants become
exceedingly aggressive crawling at you
with fierce determination
once they bite the sight immediately
starts to itch
soon turning into a blister sounds
unpleasant already
but some people can be allergic to fire
ants and their reaction is
much more upsetting okay i'm done with
the creepers for now
let's discuss big game african cape
buffalo
you might think that since they're plant
eaters they're your friends
but this can't be further from the truth
cape buffalo are some of the fiercest
territorial animals
and once they sense the presence of
human nearby
they can easily stomp them and if the
herd feels threatened
they will all turn to face the danger
and run full speed
horns forward into a desperate attacking
move
beautiful grab your camera but likely
the last thing you'll ever take a
picture of
still kate buffalo have a relative
that's even more dangerous
and it lives right alongside humans it's
a cow over 20 people get trampled by
these bovines every year
that's worse than sharks and no real
surprise come to think of it
cows are massive up to 10 times heavier
than humans
and their kit can be utterly devastating
for such fragile creatures as us
darker still horses these magnificent
animals we see so much in western movies
become the reason for grief as often as
cows wild horses in particular
are no friends to people they love their
freedom and despite
tending to run away they can turn
hostile and trample those who try to
capture them
as for domestic horses people fall off
their backs quite often
and sometimes it leads to gloomy
consequences
dogs now are humans best friends aren't
they in many cases yes
but not always stray and especially
rabid dogs attack
people very often and it's a real
trouble in big cities
in rural areas though it can be even
worse because
anti-rabies vaccine isn't always readily
available
now look at this gentle giant hippos are
cute right
nope in fact these behemoths are easily
agitated
and if you come too close be ready to
get away from a three-ton
beast that can run as fast as an olympic
athlete your best bet
is probably to try and climb a tree but
there's no guarantee the hippo chasing
you won't just
shake you off it and still have its
lunch about
500 people get caught like this every
year
much more insidious are the stone fish
dwelling in
and around the reefs of australia take
their name as a hint
they camouflage as rocks or chunks of
the reef they live in
to hunt other fish in small sea animals
humans though can get caught in their
ambush as well
and that's not a nice encounter
stonefish are the most venomous fish in
the world
so get help asap if you accidentally
step
on or kick one fortunately there is an
antidote
so you're good if you're quick enough
and finally the most
dangerous and hostile creature in the
world the mighty mosquito
don't laugh yet mosquitoes transmit
serious diseases
many of which can't be cured in time
they carry more illnesses
than any other insect or animal in the
world so
up to a full million people perish
because of them
every single year the only good thing
about them is that you can repel them
easily with specialized sprays
or citronella essence won't help against
a charging hippo will it